there is no shortcut when it comes to
learning languages none and you can
google it right now and you will find
books that are called learn German in 30
days and learn German in 7 days and
learn in 48 hours and there are so many
YouTube channels selling you the dream
that there was this secret shortcut
there was this path you didn't know
about there was this technique started
with this with my girlfriend today and
so this is on has changed a lot so we're
not yet at three years this relationship
right but we're past were past two years
at the beginning of this relationship we
talked about language learning and
language teaching and it was largely
hypothetical for my girlfriend whereas I
had a lot of real-world experience and
then just in the space of two years now
she's got more and more experience there
is no shortcut and up with a little bit
I'm gonna talk a little bit about the
biological reality of language
acquisition as opposed to the cultural
reality and you know what else it's not
rewarding in the way that people think
it is or the way the people say it is
I don't read as much as I used to
because I'm busy learning languages so I
got books here right now alright I got a
great book here on political corruption
and democracy and in China I don't know
when I'm gonna find time to read this
but I love to do a book review on this
channel but if I'm okay so this is these
are both word China so I can't read this
book about politics and history of China
because I'm gonna be busy
memorizing incredibly simple sentences
out of this book doing language language
learning language rote memorization
language practice so on and so forth so
there's there's a really simple direct
sense in which language learning makes
your life worse makes your life less
meaningful makes your life less
rewarding and you know I mean on the
other hand I'm spoiled
I've studied so many languages for so
many years I am accustomed to getting
off an airplane and being able to speak
enough French i'ma get off the airplane
in Germany this even happened we should
switch planes in Germany and speak
enough German
within Asia speaking Chinese speaking
Thai probably if I had to I could go
back to speaking enough Japanese not not
easily you know the places I've been
flying in and out of I am really
accustomed saying pardon me thank you
how much does this cost knowing the
numbers even if it's just that level of
interaction what buying groceries don't
do it and Here I am now in Athens Greece
and you know I feel ashamed I feel
ashamed that I don't speak enough for
this language already instantly to be
able to ask people how much does this
cost part of me sorry excuse me whatever
those kinds of interactions from the day
I got off the plane and you know what
you know what I own the books right I
have the temptation to think over now
how much time do I want to put into
reading these books but again language
study it competes with studying the
philosophy the history the politics
things that are really more meaningful
were more rewarding if I spend the time
doing rote memorization on Greek
vocabulary Greece and the structure
Greek grammar that's time what I'm not
even reading the Greek newspaper let
alone the philosophy of Aristotle or you
know whatever there's a lot sorry Greek
political history is really deep
it could be studying the Ottoman Empire
period I could be studying the current
unfolding you know political situation
special agreement between Greece in the
United States Greece vs Turkey Greece
Greece and China there's there's a lot
of interesting stuff I could be reading
and learning but are doing instead of
learning languages so sorry this may
sound like a digression but for many of
you this may be the main point of the
video this may be something really
important for you to think about and
consider it take seriously is that
learning languages is not meaningful in
the way that people say it is but at the
same time I've got to admit I don't even
feel like it's my own ego I feel like
it's the opposite of ego when I was at
the airport in Germany you know I had to
switch into German and I could speak
German well enough if you guys don't
know I'm vegan so it's like you know you
have to ask does this contain cheese you
have to save him of course how much does
this cost some really simple stuff like
this in German I switch in a speaking
German just for that little time in the
airport and in front of me in line in
the same shop there were like three
French women together traveling's group
and they just spoke French with making
absolutely no effort like no effort to
slow down or simplify their French no
effort to be clear but no effort to
speak German
whatsoever even the German nor did they
attempt to to speak English and the
staff this resin they were kind of
struggling with it and of course the
amuse thing is once someone one of them
figured it out
it's like they'd be saying the French
word for sausage oh they mean sausage to
the Chairman where the words are
fundamentally similar often they have a
shared entomology or shared you know
components linguistically these language
barriers are not as daunting as Chinese
versus English as
Cree and a jib way versus English these
are huge impassable insuperable
you know language bears but look what
I'm saying is I don't think it's ego in
a positive sense that I want to be able
to speak German in Germany even if it's
just for that little bit of interact I
think it's the kind of humility like
look I'm in your country I'm making the
effort to speak your language I feel
that way in Canada with the curry energy
away and the mohawk and everything else
I really refuse to accept the genocide I
want to speak their language of them if
I'm in their country most white people
don't seem to feel that way for some
mysterious reason of nationalist
ideology and on the contrary I think it
takes a really kind of pernicious
egotism
let's leave up notes a egoism but
egotism it's a really strange thing to
just go to another country just speak
English speak your own language whether
it's English or French like these women
they were behind cross song in they were
they were buying a whole bunch of stuff
it was complex order they're ordering
all of our stuff but you know to just
show up in Germany and speak French or
just show up in Germany and speak
English and it has always been remarked
that you know what the Spanish hated
about about British tourists was that
the British tourists would come to Spain
I think to Portugal also and they would
just presume that they could speak
English everywhere again not even making
an effort to simplify and speak slowly
and communicate not even making an
effort to pick up a little so there are
different factors that push and pull at
me all right
let's keep it real I'm 41 years old
right now I make weightlifting a certain
kind of priority in my life okay I was
bench pressing 240 pounds and I thought
about it do I want to put in the hours
to raise my total to be bench pressing
270 pounds didn't do it well stay tuned
to this channel we'll see if I get
motivated to go from 240 to 270 if there
was a biped fit I I could it's
attainable I could be bench-pressing 200
pounds and I know exactly the process
and the pacing and the opportunity costs
like what you can do and what you can't
do you know what what goes into that if
you want to make that transition all
right I think for most people if you're
not really experienced with language
learning language teaching an
acquisition like me by contrast it's
impossible for you to visualize it's
impossible for you to estimate what kind
of sacrifice you'd be Masek making in
getting level 1 in a language or however
you think of it going up to levels 2 & 3
what the sacrifice is going to be what
you're gonna have to invest in it to get
to get something out of it to get a
certain level of ability out of it and
there's a lot of self-deception that
goes in okay now of the two you know
what is what is more attainable
you know increases in physical strength
or in qui increases in language ability
what I want to say to you sincerely here
at age 41 to do I have 20 years of
experience with language but I don't
know but if it is have a lot of years
the lot of languages from a lot of
different language Amelie and again I've
really seen how for my girlfriend in
just two years she started learning
Chinese with me she's also worked on
French briefly she worked on Hebrew
which is interest in modern Hebrew now
briefly working on modern Greek but
there's been a number of language she
looked at where I said to her look kind
of figure out what you're missing with
this and she's been with me when I was
speaking Thai and Thailand she's seen me
speaking a bunch of languages in front
of her you know it's reflecting my weird
past with all these other languages
right once I spoke loshon I couldn't
switch you to fat when we were in France
there's oh that was so hard because I
would speak
my mind was in French and it was so hard
for me to pull my mind back into using
vocabulary from lotion anyway another
another agent Lane we just studied what
I want to emphasize is I think people
underestimate the extent to which
learning a language is biologically
limited alright let's just indulge in an
appeal to nature fallacy or come along
with you for a sec I admit this is
fallacious reasoning but it's
illustrative and you'll you'll see why
all right the natural process of
language acquisition is of a baby
breastfeeding hearing its mother speak
right of gradually picking up the
distinction between different word forms
and morphemes when have you listening to
the parents and yeah sorry to be so
heteronormative it naturally appeal to
nature fallacy here naturally you're
gonna have one set of parents speaking
one language you're not going to be
raised by four sets of parents speaking
four languages and giving you diglossia
and so on right and then you're gonna
make a transition into adulthood where
you gradually pick up on subtle
distinctions of you know register and
cadence and sophistication and
what-have-you and this is gonna progress
again naturally without written language
without any conscious awareness of
etymology very often people develop an
ignition of language and get
anthropologists study this you know
without knowing the difference between a
noun and a verb and this kind of thing
so when anthropologists are in the field
and they're really working with people
who are have no history of literacy one
of the things that makes it so difficult
to learn their language is that they
don't have a meta language they don't
have a way of explaining to you how
their language works
they are only accustomed to transmitting
their languages from mother to child in
this way without relying on like a
concept like grammar or grammatical
analysis or drawing charts or parts of
speech or breaking a word into pieces
they're just you just rote memorization
of its purest form
it's how language goes from father to
son from from mother to child
so on and so forth there was a
fascinating example this is a true
anthropological anecdote where were two
anthropologists I think they were
husband and wife so these these were
European people I think maybe they're
American but they were outsiders living
with a tribal group that had never had
writing and they were really working
hard analytically to write the people's
language and like every time that asked
them something that's okay so what's the
word for stone and they'd write it down
and they'd practice that they make sure
they were pronouncing it correctly okay
so that stone stones don't stones don't
they practice it and then when they were
out walking in the jungle with these
people you know they'd say Old Stone and
they were the native people they'd all
laugh at them their friends hilarious
they were wrong and they the native
people would say something different
they'd have a different word and so this
went on I mean I could save for years
but I think it was just months but for
months they were out living with these
people and they couldn't understand and
naturally these are university educated
people who using all the sophisticated
methods of kind of linguistic analysis
you know to record this language is
doing and what it came down to was that
this was a language in which the names
for things were different based on their
position relative to the speaker so a
stone in front of you wasn't the same as
a stone by this kind of thing right so
out of context you have to grasp this
and of course so many languages we don't
think of the middle of way how would
someone figure out you know masculine
and feminine and neutral gender and all
these things you know so all right
long story short um many of the people
here on the internet are selling you
this notion that you're doing something
positive and regenerative and
rejuvenating in learning a second
language and there is absolutely no
evidence for that okay there is
absolutely no evidence that regressing
to that childlike part of your brain and
forcing memorization of new vocabulary
and the creation of parallel structures
of meaning and reasoning is positive for
you rather than negative nun all right
and when you look at that
I'm making an appeal to nature fallacy
here but I'm also making a kind of
appeal to abstract reasoning argument
here let's say you have a talented 25
year old in university who's all his
life has been doing advanced mathematics
under every heading so geometry
trigonometry calculus what-have-you and
then you say to him at age 25 you know
what you should really do you should go
back to basics and learn how to do these
same calculations and learn how to write
these same equations using a completely
different system of notation a
completely different system of symbols
and instead of using base ten use base
twelve so the actual underlying counting
of the numbers is different and this
will somehow be good for you will make
you a better mathematician so you're
gonna have to learn to think about and
and think in terms of doing
multiplication you're gonna have to
learn the times tables again you're
gonna put thinking with most people when
you learn a foreign language the most
frustrating and boring part nobody
really wants to learn to do long
division in Chinese you know to speak in
large numbers at millions and tens of
thousands and do math in a foreign
language I think not even the most you
know philosophically motivated language
liver really wants to do this memorizing
the names of the months is also not very
months and days of the week nobody likes
that stuff either may be interested in
something more philosophical or
political or more meaningful that's
right but again okay know there may be
an argument here that mathematics itself
there's no rule for nature like we can't
make this appeal to nature fallacy I'm
saying it's a well naturally you'd grow
up with your mother breastfeeding and
learn how to do math in the home okay so
geometry and trigonometry and calculus
I'm completely willing to concede in
this case we're talking whistling
outside the scope of nature in a way
that just verbal communication is not
but that's more like written
communication okay there is nothing in
nature that resembles the Japanese
hiragana writing system there is nothing
in nature that resembles the Chinese
system of the counci radicals and these
symbols in Lagos there's nothing in
nature that resembles the Latin alphabet
either so it's completely unnatural in
the same
that geometry okay so we accept this but
nevertheless choosing as an adult to
regress and start again at basic start
again at the rudiments of reasoning why
would that be a good thing would that be
positive for you and it's mentioned one
of the most hotly contested ideas in
linguistics is actually the argument
every linguistics professor has the kind
of thesis on this is that language
fundamentally is not a method of
communication language is a method of
thought formation we all know this we
dream in language right we are our ideas
of things are shaped again any any
professor teaching linguistics can now
launch into a lengthy set of examples
including the sapir-whorf hypothesis if
you're Whorf hypothesis and all these
kind of well polished anecdotes that the
way we perceive things the way we think
about things that we understand things
of course is shaped by language and most
of us within our own lives if you think
about your childhood you can probably
remember how you thought of the world
differently before you really understood
what gravity was oh yeah and then I had
my way of visualizing well before you
understood what the model of the atom
was atoms and molecules and what the
difference was between a chemical
reaction of physical reaction this is
very crude really but this kind of
scientific understanding it changes the
way you perceive the world language
changes the way you perceive the world
much more profoundly so again in some
languages they don't differentiate green
and blue in some languages they don't
differentiate orange and red and then in
some languages they have much more
precise categories for different colors
a million anecdotes like this all right
but yes sorry I need an example that
came from a Chinese professor a Chinese
professor complained to me I wonder if
she had other specific complaints of
this she said the problem with talking
to Chinese students about politics was
that they cannot differentiate rule of
law from simply ruling by law like just
the fact that there is that there is
rule of law at all right and of course
the hilarious thing about this example
in English they're very confusing okay
so you know rule of law meaning the
quality of law and order as opposed to
just the rule of a particular law the
fact that there are laws and rules at
all right so this is an observation she
had after struggling with getting
students to understand Western concepts
but of course in our own language they
circuit these are quite unclear all
those ideas of right and human rights
and everything built into political and
social reasoning and as I mentioned to
my mother recently it's it's remarkable
almost 100 percent of the words we have
for politics in English are from Greek
or from ancient Greek so we still rely
on vocabulary from Aristotle for
democracy aristocracy oligarchy the word
politics itself you know sons over so
there was a time in England you could
look at I've never fully minutes what
was the vocabulary in Old English before
all this Greek vocabulary washed up on
shore and did that happen so these might
be interesting question to answer
unlike wise by the way in Southeast Asia
Thailand Laos Cambodia but even
Indonesia and Malaysia you will find
almost all of the political vocabulary
is from Pali and Sanskrit Sanskrit is
the language associated with Hinduism
Pali is the language associated with
Buddhism they are very very similar
languages both from ancient India so you
have this whole vocabulary that comes
into that which includes you know words
they still use today for equality and
democracy and human rights and stuff of
that they take a lot of that from from
palliative so okay the idea here is that
language is not merely about
communicating with other people it's
about forming your own thoughts that the
formation of its how we think to
ourselves is language alright and yes it
may be somewhat thrilling to reach a
level in a language where you start
dreaming in that language where you
start thinking in it when there's no one
else from when you were alone that happy
with lotion I reached the point where I
was actually thinking in lotion to
something why is this good is this
positive I'm sorry in this case there's
no comparison to lifting weights I can't
compare this the physical develop
it's not like returning to being weak or
something it's not like starting to look
weight siddaway I guess you could
compare it to you've completely mastered
baseball and then you're gonna
completely stop playing baseball and
start playing ice hockey or something a
different set of skills or you could try
to come up with us but still you don't
dream in ice hockey you don't think in I
sock you don't reason it's not
fundamental to flaws in development okay
so we're at this interesting point where
we're looking at the juncture of biology
and frankly the biological limits of
learning right the fact that our
capacity to learn itself is a product of
human evolution right and we're looking
at this really weird kind of odor outer
limits of philosophy what's at the at
the most basic and crude level of how we
philosophize how we think about life how
we perceive the world and it's all being
eroded it's all being monkeyed with your
your impairment at all by learning a new
language and guys I totally get it if
you're monolingual if you've only spoken
English your whole life I know it can be
really inspirational those people like
you know they convert to Hinduism and
they start learning Sanskrit and they go
WOW here's this whole new vocabulary for
thinking about philosophy and religion
and politics in the meaning of life that
comes out of sense comes out of it and
that may be throwing you I get it um
probably for a lot of Christians it
historically was when they first studied
Latin right their first encounter with
Wow here are all these new ideas and
book a new way of thinking a new way of
seeing the world maybe it was ancient
Greek maybe it was Hebrew you know for
people who approach the Bible through
Hebrew or something okay let me tell you
something when you've done it with like
six different languages maybe maybe I'm
in the unique position to really
cynically warn you that nope going back
to basics just just let's just stick
with the numbers learning the numbers
again in Korean there was absolutely
nothing positive or healthy or
rejuvenating or a woman nothing it just
breaks you down it's just forcing you
back to that primitive child minded you
know view of the world and and to to
start with learning the numbers 1 to 10
in Korean and then to force yourself to
be able
make change like sorry so you buy
something or sell something to subtract
and add quickly and say okay it's 20
dollars and 50 cents so I'm gonna give
you 15 dollars to do that in Korean to
build that up again okay
and then maybe you do long division and
multiplication let's just stop it they
look I'm not even getting into advanced
geometry or trigonometry you know not
such a mystery using advanced economics
or something yeah that's that's really
tough doing economics and business
quote-unquote businesses with financial
calculations in foreign language okay
now let's say one year from now you say
okay so I've done that with Korean now
I'm gonna start again with Turkish
how is that good for you how does that
make you a better person how does that
make you smarter okay what I see here on
the internet is a kind of baseless
fetishization of language learning as if
this is the key to being intellectual so
get out of these two books you know
which one will really develop me as an
intellectual so if I read this book
which is some kind of sophisticated
analysis of Chinese history and politics
what's wrong with out how Chinese
democracy works and doesn't work in
corruption okay I haven't read yet but I
assume it's good book is that gonna make
me a more sophisticated more intelligent
person or this or memorizing a bunch of
sentences some of which are as simple as
the cat saw the mouse the cat jumped off
the wall to eat the mouse you know the
point is to learn grammar of cover but
at that child level that child part of
your mind that part of your brain that
you may not have exercised since you
were a baby each other's arms and that
is as rudimentary as learning the
numerals again and again and again so
this video is inspired by Lindy boats I
have no idea to pronounce her name we
know what language you're name is him to
be honest with you uh this girl who is
on YouTube boasting that in the next
year in the year 2020 year 2020 she is
going to devote herself to studying 12
languages simultaneously and what I
really want you to question in this
video
why would that be a good thing I have to
question myself to what extent is it a
good thing to devote my time to bench
pressing 200 pounds or 240 pounds 227 I
have to question that you know there's a
certain kind of meaninglessness that but
you know what I am actually completely
confident that whether i benchpress
tuner pounds or tune of 40 pounds of
tunas in advance that I'm not doing
myself any harm if it's 500 pounds maybe
I'm doing myself so far by the way
there's a limit to this comparison all
right okay and I will point out to you
that not only is there no basis
whatsoever for the optimism that you're
making yourself a better person you're
becoming profound about lives have been
by learning the numbers again in Korean
and Japanese and Turkish and all these
differently no there's no basis that
actually if you think about this
skeptically whether you're willing to
indulge in the appeal to nature fallacy
or not or whether you're going to think
of it purely in a philosophical way like
abstract reasoning like math and
geometry on chalkboard there's actually
reason to be skeptical here that you may
be doing yourself irreparable harm